# Thoughts

ld my ideal crypto project be?

I am currently at Eth Denver hackathon. I don’t have a project. Last night I was at an  event (h/t to Harmony for sponsoring), talking to some new friends about the difficulty I am currently having finding ways to meaningfully contribute to the crypto space, with the hope of eventually transitioning to crypto full time. Someone asked me the question “what would your ideal crypto project be?” Asking about general categories gaming, defi, metaverse (whatever that is), etc. I didn’t have a good answer. Not that I haven’t thought about it in general terms, I am a big fan of all of the above, and would be happy to add value to any and all of these, but the question was about my ideal project. So I’ve given this question some thought, and decided to write about it.

This goes back to why I fell into the crypto rabbit hole to begin with. March 2020, Covid, market crash, money printer go brrrr, wtf. Very quickly, macro economic policy had my attention. I had some residual distrust of the system from the 2008 too-big-to-fail bail out, where We The People got fucked, and the bankers who made the greed based decisions that caused the problem got bonuses paid by the taxpayers. So, I see the Covid economic response giving billions to the asset holders (mostly rich boomers), and pennies to the people who would be struggling to make ends meet – basically doing the same shit again. So I started googling… I don’t remember how exactly I got there, but I landed on a Bitcoin influencer YouTube video with a fomo title (like most of them). BTC was about $7,000 at the time, so I set up a coinbase account and bought 0.1. Then I started learning more. I read the white paper. I started watching more YouTube videos. I spread a wide net, I bought ETH, ATOM, ADA, BCH, ZEC, XMR, IDK WTF else, but I kept learning, and I started using the only network that had acutal usecases at the time, Ethereum. I dove in head first just in time for defi summer. I farmed SNX, COMP and YFI. I farmed dozens of other things, most of which only true degens would recognize. I got a respectable degen score. Then the wave of NFT hype hit, and I went deep into that as well. I had a lot of fun, made more money than I lost, learned a lot about using the ethereum network, but my activities were completely detached from the reason I got into crypto to begin with. 

To my credit, I never stopped researching. I switched from YouTube as a primary information source for current cyrpto events to twitter. I started consuming podcasts in bulk, particularly ZK Podcast, Bankless, Uncommon Core, Epicenter, The Defiant, Eth Hub, I’m sure I’m forgetting some. I took a Solidity bootcamp (because I wanted to be able to read the unaudited smart contracts I was aping into). I got involved in (way too many) discords and DAOs. I read books such as The Infinite Machine by Camila Russo and Crypto by Steven Levy. I became passionate about the space as a whole and the opportunities that it presents. I have not found a project that made me think “omg I’m going to quit my job so I can contribute to this one thing.” To the contrary, I lurk in so many discords, that with my full time job, I don’t have the time to meaningfully contribute to any of them. I want to contribute, but to what? So we are back to the original question – what is my ideal project?

Big picture, I think (one of) the superpower(s) of crypto is the ability to build incentive structures. It has become clear to me that American Capitalism is a failed experiment. The various iterations of communism that have been attempted have failed as well. Both of these systems fail because power/money tends to accumulate and centralize. Crypto seems to have at least many of the necessary ingredients to solve this (decentralizatized, non-corruptible, trustless). The core of problem as I see it is that capital generates additional capital more quickly than labor generates capital. Assets (in aggregate) appreciate faster than wages. This necessarily makes the rich richer and the poor poorer. Corruption exacerbates this exponentially. The ideal project for me to work on will take a stab at this. This is a tall order, and I don’t really know what it would look like. There will probably be many aspects to this that will need to be addressed individually, rather than conquering the whole problem in one fell swoop. I want to work on something that will fundamentally change social structures in a way that makes the world a better place. When I find something that resonates with me, that I believe is making a creditable attempt at this, I will go all in. In the mean time, I will be watching for that project and learning as much as I can so that I have something to offer when I find it.
